>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So
we went over querying in EF Core,
which I would say that between that and
adding and removing objects,
querying is by far the more nuanced thing.
So definitely worth paying attention to
and kind of learning the ins and outs and
quirks of it.
So let's go back to our post and
put endpoints and actually add and remove
objects from our database, let's refactor,
let's go back and refactor those.
So I'm gonna go to
the next solution folder,
so we were on 4-E, so
we need to go to 4,
let's see 4-F, perfect, okay, all right.
So first things, first, we're going
to go to our employee controller,
we're going to scroll down and we're going
to see that our comments are still there.
We're going to go ahead and delete that
one and put this, put the comment back for
the rest of them for now, and we have two
lines that we need to write, pretty cool.
They are _dbContext.Employees.Add,
and then _dbContext.SaveChanges,
I mentioned earlier that DbContext
was a unit of work pattern,
in addition to being a repository pattern.
So if you had made multiple changes to the
database, the SaveChangesAsync represents
that one unit of work to actually
take care of all of that.
So very straightforward, not a lot to do,
and then we can actually kill this
await Task.CompletedTask,
because we now have a method that actually
has an await call, which is to dbContext,
which is pretty great.
So next we are going to go here, and
we're going to go to our
UpdateEmployee endpoint,
do that, and
we'll just comment that out, and
we will do pretty much
the exact same thing.
Except this time we've already
pulled this thing from memory,
or we will here in a second,
we'll go ahead and
async Task of IActionResult,
and then we will await,
_dbContext dot and
we'll just use FindAsync now.
Use little FindAsync, that's good,
okay, we do need to say
Employees.FindAsync, and
then, because this is already
part of the change tracker.
I mentioned earlier that dbContext
will track our changes for
us, we will say,
await _dbContext.SaveChangesAsync,
and we will that should be pretty good.
Now, according to this flow,
we were like, we'll run the tests and
wait a failure because we forgot
to uncomment out our validator,
we're just gonna go ahead and
validate that real quick.
We're gonna go ahead and refactor our
validator here real quick as well,
so we're gonna go to our
UpdateEmployeeRequest,
we're gonna uncomment that out as well.
And we are going to destroy
all the references to
IRepository, AppDbContext appDbContext,
boom, and
then we will say hover over that,
click there, control dot or
sorry command dot,
command period, and assign the field.
We'll rename it per Spenser's style
guidelines, self inflicted ones,
and then we'll move that there,
so, it's nice and organized.
And then, of course, we earlier declared
this async method knowing that we would
have to refactor it to talk to a specific
database, so we'll take out this call and
we kept it async.
So we will go ahead and
say await _appDbContext.FindAsync,
we'll go ahead and just call that,
and we will say id,
again, missing the .Employees,
and there we go, we got it.
So, pretty straightforward refactor so
far, let's go ahead and
uncomment and run our tests and
see what happens, so,
we got our CreateEmployees and
our UpdateEmployees.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So,
we'll leave everything off, but
the benefits Control + Shift + Tilde,
and I'll say dotnet test, and
you're gonna see that all
the tests that we created,
all pass, which is exactly what we want
to see, so, that's really awesome.
So we did all of that, but
I do want to discuss one thing,
a little bit of magic in EF Core,
if you will, and I do want, and
I think it's important, to bring up,
which is the Change Tracker.
So the change tracker is
notoriously a little slow,
it's really only slow when you're
dealing with lots and lots of objects.
But as objects are loaded
into memory in EF Core,
you will find that the Change Tracker
will track all of those objects, and
even if they don't need an update,
they will attempt to be updated.
So you can instruct EF Core
to track changes manually,
you can turn off that change tracking,
and make it so
that you have to explicitly tell Entity
Framework what objects to update.
In my opinion, in new projects,
I prefer to turn change tracking off,
I do it simply because I prefer
explicit code, that said,
if you leave it on and it works for
you, I think that's totally fine.
But me, personal preferences,
I tend to turn it off where I can,
so I'm gonna update our
call to AddDbContext
to say program, AddDbContext and do that.
And we're gonna say
query tracking behavior,
no Tracking, which is going to affect
the update endpoint specifically.
And it's gonna update and
it's gonna affect it because we have
not instructed it to track that object,
it's actually coming, it's being queried,
but EF Core is no longer tracking it.
So if we run our tests, we'll see it pass,
okay, nothing broke well,
there you go does this mean
it didn't change nothing?
It means our tests aren't sufficient,
that's right, if you take a look at our
UnitTest for UpdateEmployee, all it
says is, is there a success status code?
So in this case, while we have tests and
the tests are really good at protecting
ourselves from weird behavior,
they're not sufficient in this case.
So let's go ahead and
update them to ensure that it actually
did update what we expected to update,
so I'm gonna copy this stuff in,
and then I will paste it in here,
it's gonna need an import, so
I will command dot and import that.
And now what we're doing is we're changing
John Doe's street to 123 Main Smoot,
and a Smoot, by the way, is a unit of
measurement look it up, it's true.
And we are going to load it
from the database and then see,
in addition to this,
we are also going to change our query
tracking behavior inside
of our method here.
So options.UseQueryTrackingBehavior
is no tracking, so
it'll turn off change tracking there,
and then we will run our tests, and
you'll see that now our 123 Main Smoot is
not 123 Main Smoot, it's 123 Main Street.
That's because we turned off
automatic change tracking, so
we can fix this very easily,
one line of code,
if we go here to our put endpoint,
our UpdateEmployee endpoint.
All we have to do is notate to
the dbContext that this thing needs to be
updated and the way you do that is,
you go dbContext.Entry,
you give it the object that is
the entry that you want to update.
So in this case,
it's the existingEmployee,
and then you say,
State equals Modified, okay?
So, now we've marked this thing as
this entity is now being tracked,
we are explicitly turning off
automatic change tracking, and
we've explicitly turned it off.
And now we're explicitly telling
this instance of the dbContext,
track this object, so now we're gonna
rerun our tests, dotnet test, and
we're gonna see that they all pass now.
Now it's updating as it should,
which is exactly what we want, so
one other thing that you can do is
you can actually turn on AsTracking,
and if you have and if you have
an application that you're running.
You can actually inside of a single query,
you can turn it off as,
as no tracking in case you're doing
a read only search, so you can do
that by await dbContext.Employees,
and you can say AsTracking.
And then you FindAsync method, because
FindAsync operates on DbSet doesn't
exist anymore, so we'll just simply
turn it to SingleOrDefaultAsync.
And then we'll say, (e => e.Id == id)
and then we'll go down here,
remove this, and you'll see that
because we've explicitly for
this query turned on change tracking
that our object still gets updated.
So that's basically
instructing EF Core to say yes,
track these objects that I'm getting from
this query, and the opposite is true.
If you have change tracking automatic
change tracking turned on, you can say
AsNoTracking, so you can not have to track
objects that you don't need to track.
So last thing we're gonna go over is
removing an object from the database, so
I'm going to go down here and I'm just
gonna paste this below my update method.
And we're gonna go through it super quick,
because there's really not a lot of
complication with it, so in this case,
we're basically taking and
we're creating a delete method.
So we're gonna send a delete command
to this API with that id, and
it's going to call this DeleteEmployee
method with the id taken from the route,
as we would expect.
We'll return NotFound if that thing
is not found, but otherwise we will
go _dbContext.Employees.Remove,
and then our SaveChangesAsync,
will then delete that from the database,
very straightforward.
And you can see here that we can add
in a couple of tests to check for
the NotFound, and then we can also
create our new employee here and
then delete them after we've created them.
So boom, we'll go here to our tests,
make our project even more beefy,
make it me even more awesome by making
sure that all of our tests are there and
we are covering all
the behaviors of our code.
So we'll go Control + Shift + Tilda,
and we'll go dotnet test, and
we'll see that everything worked, we added
a new employee object to our context here
in our test, and then we're immediately
turning around and deleting it.
And what's this employee's name?
Meow Garida, it's one of my clients
refers to me as Meow Gerita, it's a long
story all right, we got our test passing,
so now we've created our queries and
we've also added and
removed objects in the database.